## Exercise 4.1 (page 86)

<details>
  <summary>Problem statement</summary>
  
  Write a program to delete an element from a linked list.
   - If you've never done this problem before, you can solve a similar version [here](https://www.hackerrank.com/challenges/delete-a-node-from-a-linked-list/problem) to get the main idea
   - Alternatively, if you did this in your data structures class, try [this](https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-linked-list-elements/) problem instead
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Problem solution (easier version)</summary>
  
  ### Implementation
  You can find the idea behind the implementation [here](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/deletion-in-linked-list/). I didn't write one because I'm lazy.
  
  ### Time complexity 
  
  #### Best/worst/average case
  $\mathcal{O}(n)$
  
  ### Space complexity 
  
  #### Best/worst/average case
  $\mathcal{O}(1)$
  
  ### Correctness proof / algorithm idea
  Omitted since I'm feeling lazy. 
  
  However, in case you want to go through the exercise anyways, here's the loop invariant you'll want to use. 
  
  Let $P(k)$ be the proposition that after the $k$-th iteration of the loop, none of the nodes in the range `[head, curr]` contain `val`
</details>

<details>
  <summary>Problem solution (harder version)</summary>
  
  ### Implementation
  You can find my implementation [here](https://leetcode.com/submissions/detail/916013025/).
  
  ### Time complexity 
  
  #### Best/worst/average case
  $\mathcal{O}(n)$
  
  ### Space complexity 
  
  #### Best/worst/average case
  $\mathcal{O}(1)$
  
  ### Correctness proof / algorithm idea
  
  We use the following loop invariant. 
  
  Let $P(k)$ be the proposition that after the $k$-th iteration of the loop, none of the nodes in the range `[head, p]` contain `val`. 
  
  ### Base case
  $P(0)$ is vacuously true. `p = dummy_head` (which is before `head`) before the loop starts, so there are no nodes in the range `[head, p]`
  
  ### Inductive step
  Observe that after any iteration of the loop, one of two things can happen.
  1. `p` doesn't move 
     - In this case, $P(k)$ clearly implies $P(k + 1)$ since nothing has changed
     - That is, it's still true that none of the nodes in the range `[head, p]` contain `val`. 
  2. `p` points further ahead in the list
     - When this happens, `p` skips over all the nodes in the range `[p + 1, q)` and then points to `q`
     - As a result, the nodes in the range `[head, new p]` $==$ the nodes in the range `[head, old p]` + `q`
     - By the induction hypothesis, we know that none of the nodes in the range `[head, old p]` contain `val`
     - Further, since `p` is only updated like this when `q.val != val`, we know that `q` doesn't contain `val` either.
     - Thus, $P(k) \implies P(k + 1)$ because after the latest iteration, none of the nodes in the range `[head, (new) p]` contain `val`
  
  NOTE: 
   - In the second case, we're not deleting any more nodes than strictly necessary because we do the update *every time* `q.val != val`
   - Therefore, there's <ins>never</ins> a case where some node between `p` and `q` doesn't contain `val` but we delete it anyways
  
  ### Termination requirement
  The loop ends when `q is None`. 
  
  Since `q = head` before the loop and moves forward `1` node each iteration, this will happen after exactly $n$ iterations, where $n$ $=$ list size.
</details>
